# Forecasting-Crude-Oil
This jupyter notebook proposes a long-run forecasting model of the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil spot price using the United States petroleum inventory level. The inventory data used in the model is updated each wednesday 10:30 AM EST, resulting in a new forecasted value for each week. Applying the forecasting model between January 2010 to date, I find that the model delivers persistent long-term performance. The model is useful for those who are interested in forecasting future oil prices or for those who wish to understand and interpret historical price fluctuations.

In the notebook I propose a long-run forecasting model that uses OLS. Using OLS is not recommended for short-run forecasting because of (1). By switching to an ARIMA, the model can beat a naive forecasting model in the short-run.

(1) The classical linear regression model builds on the assumption of independent and identically distributed observations. For cross-sectional data, independence between observations is automatically fulfilled when random sampling is used. For time series, one typically cannot assume that the samples which are taken throughout time are independent of one another. Time series tend to contain a high degree of auto-correlation, which is particularly the case if the sampling interval is small, such as a week or a month. Furthermore, time series data tend to be nonstationary in levels, which violates the requirement of identically distributed observation. By employing a classic linear regression model for time series data, the risk of producing a spurious model is high because sufficient care is not taken during formulation of the auto-correlation structure and non-stationarity of the data.
